Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now this lecture we're going to look at another way to retrieve a value from a dictionary.
And that is using pipings get method.
Now the good thing about this method is that it has a built in safety net for handling situations where
you ask for a value of a key that doesn't exist.
If the key doesn't exist the method returns a default value which you can define.
So let's have a look.
So let's first create or dictionary terms equals and let's give it our first key which is integer and
let's get this integer the value a whole number because that's what an integer is.
OK now let's print this out using our GET method print terms that guess and we're using does get notation
because we want this method to act upon the terms dictionary.
That's why its terms don't get.
And we want to print integer.
OK let's have a look.
There we go a whole number.
Now what happens if we try an access key that is not in the dictionary.
Well let's give it a go print terms.
Get.
Let's say float like our last example and now we add in a comma not in the dictionary.
OK and let's see what we get.
Now let's correct a quick typo.
There we go.
Let's see.
Not in the dictionary.
By using the get method we are guaranteed to get a value back in this example.
If the key float wasn't a dictionary we would have gotten that value back.
But as it was not we instead got our default message.
If you don't supply a default message you don't get anything back.
OK so I hope that explained another way to retrieve the value from a dictionary.
And as always if you have any questions please do not hesitate to ask.
Thank you and I'll see you in the next lecture.